Aren't in this lecture we're going to be creating a new prop which is going to be a potion book.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to make a top surface for a book and also add some
texture to it.
So I have a 1000 by 1000 pixel document here.
I've filled the background in with this mid-tone gray.
I'll show you the color right now.
So here's the color out there.
There it's color number and then I've added a new layer above that which is where I'm going to be creating
my book.
So first I only use my Marki tool and I'm going to select a rectangular shape like so then I'm going
to go ahead and grab a dark purplish most burgundy color.
So maybe somewhere in there maybe a little bit darker and go ahead and actually I think I want to make
that just a tiny bit lighter.
Go ahead.
Hit OK.
Gentlemen go ahead and fill that in.
Next I'm going to go ahead and create a new layer above this.
Then holding down alt or option.
If you're on a Mac you're going to go ahead and hover between these two until you get this arrow pointing
down at your other layer with a box next to it.
Once you get that you can go ahead and click between the two of them and that will automatically create
a layer mask for this layer.
So this is a much quicker way to create clipping layer mask.
Then let's go ahead and use then we're going to go ahead and use airbrush tool.
And I'm going to be using this brush right here.
So this is just a generic brush.
You can find here in Photoshop down here towards the bottom and it has the number 100 underneath it
and all it has is just a bunch of little spots.
If we go ahead as base these out you'll see it's just a bunch of little dots all together.
We want to keep that together so it's a nice brush.
And then I'm going go ahead and bring my brushes a little bit and then I want to go ahead and select
a Durka version of this so I need to come down there and maybe more into my purple's.
OK.
And then I'm going to bring my brush capacity down to 20 percent by hitting the number and keyboard
and now going to began painting in a little bit more texture onto my book.
Now I want the edges of my book to be darker than anywhere else.
So that's why I'm painting mostly on these edges and I'm just adding in some random marks in there and
don't worry it doesn't look perfect we can always go back and erase or we can even go back and paint
over it which is what we're going to be doing in this case.
So once we got some marks in there next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and switch
over to a lighter color.
Someone to come up to about there maybe a little bit more saturated.
And then I'm going to come down into more of my orange colors so maybe about there.
Okay.
And then I'm gonna start painting with this.
And I'm still painting at 20 percent opacity and I'm just going to paint right across the top.
So I just want to keep this very organic looking.
And then I switch back over to this darker purple color by selecting it with my eyedropper and then
I'll begin painting that over the top of this until I get this looking just the way I want.
You can also grab a few other colors so we can go ahead and grab let's say a Brownson to come into my
dirt Browns.
I'll paint a little bit with that
can also go ahead and grab the blue just add some more color in there and bring it up to somewhere in
here.
OK.
I'll go ahead and add a few marks with this and I'm going to bring my brush opacity down to 10 percent
now.
So it's even lighter
can also grab some read so come all the way up into my Reade's pay a little bit of some red in there
just to give our book cover a little bit more color and more depth.
Sometimes you don't realize it but in really good art you'll find that there are a lot of different
colors in there.
Then I'm going to go ahead and select this color right there that we originally had for highlight and
I'm just going to paint over all this once again just to sort of bring it all together and I might add
a few layers of this.
Just go scribble across it.
Great.
You can also go in here and find maybe another brush spaced out and just add a little bit more of a
different texture.
Some of them are Bursar's up and then I'll go ahead and switch over to let's say a derk greyish brown
color so maybe in there.
OK.
And then I'm going to add in just a few spots here.
I'm going to bring my brush rapacity up to 20 percent then I'll just add in a few texture spots with
this brush.
Now noticing that it's a little bit darker up here at this top side.
So what I'm going to do is to select this lighter color here and I'm going to paint this topside just
a little bit more.
All right.
Perfect.
I think that looks pretty good for our texture.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and merge our clipping layer mask and our shape
layer together.
So that's all one layer.
Then I'm going to go ahead and use my Transform Tool by hitting control T or command t if you're on
a Mac.
And what I want to do is I want to put this plane or this surface into perspective.
So I'm in right click and I'm going to come to distort and then what I'm gonna do is going to grab this
middle guy right here at the bottom.
And now if I drag that you'll see it'll drag my two edge points out here with it.
So I'm going to drag this so we can sort of slant our image over and also squash it a little bit.
So maybe two right about there and we can bring this guy down maybe a little bit.
All right perfect.
But now we don't just want to have perspective going in this direction we want to also get a little
bit perspective on our horizontal axis also.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab this corner of here and I'm to bring it down to about there and then
I want to grab this corner and bring this up to about there and I want to try to get the seam angle
on the top as I have on the bottom.
So this angle and this angle should be matching.
Then I'll go ahead and hit enter.
And now we have the top surface of our book.
Next we want to go ahead and create the bottom surface of our book.
So we're going to go ahead and hit Control J or commanded J.
If you're on a Mac and now we have a copy of that.
So I'm actually going to bring this bottom layer down so bring that down to you right about there and
we can bring it straight down but since this isn't a perspective on our x and y access we need to go
ahead and do this over a little bit so that these lines here are also going to be at a horizontal angle.
Next we need to go ahead and create the spine for our book.
So the way I'm going to do that is I'm going to go ahead and make a copy of this bottom layer and then
I'm going to go ahead and use my Lasso tool and I'm just going to cut right through the middle of it
maybe even a little past the middle and I'll go ahead and delete all of that here.
You can't tell it's deleted but if I go ahead and move that letter you'll see that I've deleted all
that then I'm going to go ahead and turn on the Transform Tool and then I'm going to right click come
to work.
And what I want to do is I want to work this up so this matches appear to that corner and then I want
to work this side up.
So it matches that corner also.
But I want to make sure that it's also touching down here at the bottom corner.
So right about there.
All right great.
I think that should work perfect.
So now we're going to go ahead and enter in then what we want to do is we want to go ahead and use our
Lasso tool on the switch over to my polygon a Lasso tool and I get a click from this corner all the
way in to here.
And then all the way down to there and then connected back.
So I can delete everything that's underneath this front cover of the book.
So I hit delete and then I want to go ahead and delete a straight line coming all the way across here
like so just so that we can get this line a bit straighter and then using my earpiece tool and I want
to make sure I'm on a hard edged brush.
I'm going to go ahead anyway so away a little bit more of a curve into the spine of the book right there.
So now that's curved just a little bit more.
So now we have the basic parts of our book cover.
But what we need to do now is we need to add a little bit of some shadowing in there to make this look
a little bit more realistic.
So I'm going to first off start with the bottom book cover then I to hit control you or command you
if you're on a Mac and now you can go ahead and darken that a little bit because since it's on the bottom
it's going to be getting a little bit more shadow.
And then we can bring the saturation up just a tiny bit.
The darker things get the more saturated they tend to become.
So then we'll go ahead.
OK.
Then we want to do the same thing for the spine because we're going to say that the light source is
coming from over here.
So it's going to be hitting the top surface and the side surfaces over here that you can't see.
So that means this surface over here on the spine is going to be a shadow surface.
So once again we'll have control you or command you if you're on a Mac.
We're going to go dark in that and I'm going to darken it a little bit darker than our bottom book cover.
So right about there should be good.
And then going to bring up the saturation just a tiny bit hit OK and then we're going to go ahead and
merge our spine layer.
And our top surface layer together.
So that's all going to be one layer.
Now we don't want to merge to this bottom layer because we're going to add some pages in here between
the front and the back cover.
And if those are merged together we're not going to be able to insert them underneath this from cover.
Next I'm going to go ahead and zoom in here just a little bit and then I'm going select my dark color
on the spine and then using my brush tool and I'm to bring down the brush size.
And if you like you can stay on the textured brush you can use whatever box you'd like.
I'm going to paint right along this edge and I'm going to start blending in this edge to the top surface
of my book.
So once it's blended to about this point I'm going go ahead and select this top book cover and I'll
go ahead and blend into the spun then once I have that blended in I'm going to go ahead and select this
in mid color that we have here.
And then I'm going to switch over to a different brush.
I think I can grab a different brush that will do a better job of this.
So many this rush toward here.
And also remember that we're painting at 20 percent opacity when we're doing this and I'm going to paint
right along the edge
and that just helps it blend in.
So it's not such a hard edge between the top surface and the back of the spine aren't.
Now lastly what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and shape the shape of our book cover a
little bit more.
So using my arrays tool and I'm going to switch over to this paint brush tool for my racer and what
I want to do is just erase away some of these areas on the corners so they're not such hard edges or
sharp corners.
And then I'm also going to break up the lines of the edges of my book just a little bit so it looks
a little bit older more tattered and beat to the same thing appear on the top can even add in maybe
just a type of notch going in there.
We also want to do the same thing down here on the bottom and maybe even shape out the spine a little
bit more.
So it's not such a straight line.
Then we'll go ahead and switch down to the bottom book cover and we'll do the same thing.
So going to race the way this corner a little bit and a little bit more shape in there
all right.
Perfect.
I think that will work great.
So now we have the basic setup for a book in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and create the
book pages that go between our two covers.
I really hope you enjoy this lecture and I'm looking forward to seeing you in the next one.